README.md, before:

# HybPiper-RBGV

## Original HybPiper github, wiki and tutorial:

For an explanation of the general purpose of [HybPiper][17], and the approach it takes to generate target loci sequences from sequence capture data, please see the excellent documentation, wiki and tutorial at the `mossmatters` repo:

- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/
- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki
- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki/Tutorial

## HybPiper-RBGV: containerised and pipelined using Singularity and Nextflow

To simplify running HybPiper, I’ve provided a [Singularity][15] container containing the Linux distribution Ubuntu 18.04, containing all the scripts required to run the HybPiper pipeline (including modifications, additions and bug fixes, see below for details), as well as all the dependencies ([BioPython][9], [BLAST][8], [BWA][11], [BBmap][12], [Exonerate][13], [SPAdes][10], [Samtools][14]). The container is called `hybpiper-rbgv.sif`.

To run HybPiper using this container, I’ve provided a [Nextflow][16] pipeline that uses the software in the Singularity container. This pipeline runs all HybPiper steps with a single command. The pipeline is called `hybpiper_pipeline_v1_7.nf`. It comes with an associated config file called `hybpiper_v1_7.config`. The only input required is a folder of sequencing reads for your samples, and a target file in `.fasta` format. The Nextflow pipeline will automatically generate the `namelist.txt` file required by some of the HybPiper scripts, and will run all HybPiper scripts on each sample in parallel. It also includes an optional read-trimmming step to QC your reads prior to running HybPiper, using the software [Trimmomatic][7]. The number of parallel processes running at any time, as well as computing resources given to each process (e.g. number of CPUs, amount of RAM etc) can be configured by the user by modifying the provided config file. The pipeline can be run directly on your local computer, and on an HPC system submitting jobs via a scheduler (e.g. [SLURM][21], PBS, etc). 

## Input data

### Target file

Your **`target file`**, which can contain either nucleotide OR protein sequences (see below for corresponding pipeline options), should follow the formatting described for HybPiper [here][19]. Briefly, your target genes should be grouped and differentiated by a suffix in the fasta header, consisting of a dash followed by an ID unique to each gene, e.g.:

    >AJFN-4471
    AATGTTATACAGGATGAAGAGAAACTGAATACTGCAAACTCCGATTGGATGCGGAAATACAAAGGCT...
    >Ambtr-4471
    AGTGTTATTCAAGATGAAGATGTATTGTCGACAGCCAATGTGGATTGGATGCGGAAATATAAGGGCA...
    >Ambtr-4527
    GAGGAGCGGGTGATTGCCTTGGTCGTTGGTGGTGGGGGTAGAGAACATGCTCTATGCTATGCTTTGC...
    >Arath-4691
    GAGCTTGGATCTATCGCTTGCGCAGCTCTCTGTGCTTGCACTCTTACAATAGCTTCTCCTGTTATTG...
    >BHYC-4691
    GAAGTGAACTGTGTTGCTTGTGGGTTTCTTGCTGCTCTTGCTGTCACTGCTTCTCCCGTAATCGCTG...
    etc...

### Read files

You will need to provide the `hybpiper_pipeline_v1_7.nf` pipeline with either:

a) A directory of paired-end forwards and reverse reads (and, optionally, a file of single-end reads) for each sample; or

b) A directory of single-end reads.

For the read files to be recognised by the pipeline, they should be named according to the default convention:

    *_R1.fastq 
    *_R2.fastq
    *_single.fastq (optional - will be used if running with the flag `--unpaired`)

OR

    *_R1.fq 
    *_R2.fq
    *_single.fq (optional - will be used if running with the flag `--unpaired`)

**NOTE:**
- It’s fine if there’s text after the `R1`/`R1` and before the `.fastq`/`.fq`, as long as it's the same for both read files.
- It’s fine if the input files are gzipped (i.e. suffix `.gz`). 
- You can specify a custom pattern used for read file matching via the parameters `--read_pairs_pattern <pattern>` or  `--single_pattern <pattern>`. 
- You can provide a folder of single-end reads only (use the flag `--single_only` if you do).


- The pipeline will concatenate samples that have been run on different lanes, e.g. read files:

      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L001_R1.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L001_R2.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L002_R1.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L002_R2.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L001_R1.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L001_R2.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L002_R1.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L002_R2.fastq

  It does this by grouping forwards and reverse reads (or single reads if you’re providing a folder of single reads and using the `--single_only` flag) via the common prefix preceding the first underscore (`_`). So, `79678` and `79679` in this case, resulting in the files:
  
      79678_combinedLanes_R1.fastq
      79678_combinedLanes_R2.fastq
      79679_combinedLanes_R1.fastq
      79679_combinedLanes_R2.fastq
      
   These combined read files will be used as input to HybPiper-RBGV.


## Running on Linux

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on Linux][3].

## Running on a Mac (macOS)

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on a Mac][1].

## Running on a PC (Windows)

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on a PC][20].

## Nextflow pipeline options and parameters

Example run command:

    nextflow run hybpiper_pipeline_v1_7.nf -c hybpiper_v1_7.config --illumina_reads_directory reads_for_hybpiper --target_file Angiosperms353_targetSequences.fasta


Options:


    Mandatory arguments:

    #######################################################################################################################

    --illumina_reads_directory <directory>    Path to folder containing illumina read file(s)
  
    --target_file <file>                      File containing fasta sequences of target genes

    #######################################################################################################################

    Optional arguments:

     -profile <profile>                       Configuration profile to use. Can use multiple (comma separated)
                                              Available: standard (default), slurm
     
     -resume                                  If restarting the pipeline, use cached results from previously completed 
                                              processes

     --cleanup                                Run 'cleanup.py' for each gene directory after 'reads_first.py'

     --nosupercontigs                         Do not create supercontigs. Use longest Exonerate hit only. Default is off.

     --memory <int>                           Memory (RAM) amount in GB to use for bbmap.sh with exonerate_hits.py. 
                                              Default is 1 GB

     --discordant_reads_edit_distance <int>   Minimum number of base differences between one read of a read pair 
                                              vs the supercontig reference for a read pair to be flagged as discordant. 
                                              Default is 5

     --discordant_reads_cutoff <int>          Minimum number of discordant reads pairs required to flag a supercontigs 
                                              as a potential hybrid of contigs from multiple paralogs. Default is 5

     --merged                                 Merge forward and reverse reads, and run SPAdes assembly with merged and 
                                              unmerged (the latter in interleaved format) data. Default is off

     --paired_and_single                      Use when providing both paired R1 and R2 read files as well as a file of 
                                              single-end reads for each sample

     --single_only                            Use when providing providing only a folder of single-end reads

     --outdir <directory_name>                Specify the name of the pipeline results directory. Default is 'results'

     --read_pairs_pattern <pattern>           Provide a comma-separated read pair pattern for matching forwards and 
                                              reverse paired-end read-files. Default is 'R1,R2'

     --single_pattern <pattern>               Provide a pattern for matching single-end read files. Default is 'single'

     --use_blastx                             Use a protein target file and map reads to targets with BLASTx. Default 
                                              is a nucleotide target file and mapping of reads to targets using BWA

     --num_forks <int>                        Specify the number of parallel processes (e.g. concurrent runs of 
                                              reads.first.py) to run at any one time. Can be used to prevent Nextflow 
                                              from using all the threads/cpus on your machine. Default is to use the 
                                              maximum number possible

     --cov_cutoff <int>                       Coverage cutoff to pass to the SPAdes assembler. Default is 8

     --blastx_evalue <value>                  Evalue to pass to blastx when using blastx mapping (i.e. when the 
                                              --use_blastx flag is specified). Default is 1e-4

     --paralog_warning_min_len_percent <decimal>
                                              Minimum length percentage of a contig vs reference protein length for 
                                              a paralog warning to be generated and a putative paralog contig to be 
                                              recovered. Default is 0.75

     --translate_target_file_for_blastx       Translate a nucleotide target file. If set, the --use_blastx is set 
                                              by default. Default is off

     --use_trimmomatic                        Trim forwards and reverse reads using Trimmomatic. Default is off

     --trimmomatic_leading_quality <int>      Cut bases off the start of a read, if below this threshold quality. 
                                              Default is 3

     --trimmomatic_trailing_quality <int>     Cut bases off the end of a read, if below this threshold quality. 
                                              Default is 3

     --trimmomatic_min_length <int>           Drop a read if it is below this specified length. Default is 36

     --trimmomatic_sliding_window_size <int>  Size of the sliding window used by Trimmomatic; specifies the number of 
                                              bases to average across. Default is 4

     --trimmomatic_sliding_window_quality <int>
                                              Specifies the average quality required within the sliding window. 
                                              Default is 20

     --run_intronerate                        Run intronerate.py to recover (hopefully) intron and supercontig sequences.
                                              Default is off, and so results `subfolders 09_sequences_intron` and 
                                              `10_sequences_supercontig` will be empty
                                            
Please see the Wiki entry [Additional pipeline features and details][5] for further explanation of the parameters above, and general pipeline functionality.
             

## Output folders and files

If you're just after the unaligned `.fasta` files for each of your target genes, the two main output folders of interest are probably:

- `07_sequences_dna`
- `08_sequences_aa`

For a full explanation of output folders and files, please see the Wiki entry [Output folders and files][6].
             
## General notes

For details on adapting the pipeline to run on local and HPC computing resources, see [here][18].

## Bug fixes and changes (WIP)

Please see the Wiki entry [Bug fixes and changes][2].



## Issues still to deal with (WIP)

Please see the Wiki entry [Issues][4].




[1]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-a-Mac-(macOS)-with-Vagrant "Link to Running on a Mac Wiki"
[2]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Bug-fixes-and-changes-(WIP) "Link to bug fixes and changes Wiki"
[3]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-Linux "Link to Running on Linux Wiki"
[4]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Issues-(WIP) "Link to Issues Wiki"
[5]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Additional-pipeline-features-and-details "Link to Additional pipeline features and details Wiki"
[6]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Output-folders-and-files "Link to Output folders and files Wiki"
[7]:http://www.usadellab.org/cms/?page=trimmomatic "Link to Trimmomatic website"
[8]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK279690/ "Link to BLAST command line documentation"
[9]:https://biopython.org/ "Link to BioPython website"
[10]:https://github.com/ablab/spades "Link to SPAdes assembler website"
[11]:http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/ "Link to BWA mapper website"
[12]:https://jgi.doe.gov/data-and-tools/bbtools/bb-tools-user-guide/bbmap-guide/ "Link to bbmap documentation"
[13]:https://www.ebi.ac.uk/about/vertebrate-genomics/software/exonerate "Link to Exonerate website"
[14]:http://www.htslib.org/ "Link to htslib website for Samtools"
[15]:https://sylabs.io/docs/ "Link to Singularity website"
[16]:https://www.nextflow.io/ "Link to Nextflow website"
[17]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4948903/ "Link to HybPiper manuscript"
[18]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Additional-pipeline-features-and-details#managing-computing-resources "Link to managing computing resources"
[19]:https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki#target-file "Link to HybPiper Wiki target file details"
[20]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-a-PC-(Windows) "Link to Running on a PC Wiki"
[21]:https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html "Link to SLURM website"

Commit message:

Update names of NFX pipeline script and config file

README.md, after:

# HybPiper-RBGV

## Original HybPiper github, wiki and tutorial:

For an explanation of the general purpose of [HybPiper][17], and the approach it takes to generate target loci sequences from sequence capture data, please see the excellent documentation, wiki and tutorial at the `mossmatters` repo:

- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/
- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki
- https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki/Tutorial

## HybPiper-RBGV: containerised and pipelined using Singularity and Nextflow

To simplify running HybPiper, I’ve provided a [Singularity][15] container containing the Linux distribution Ubuntu 18.04, containing all the scripts required to run the HybPiper pipeline (including modifications, additions and bug fixes, see below for details), as well as all the dependencies ([BioPython][9], [BLAST][8], [BWA][11], [BBmap][12], [Exonerate][13], [SPAdes][10], [Samtools][14]). The container is called `hybpiper-rbgv.sif`.

To run HybPiper using this container, I’ve provided a [Nextflow][16] pipeline that uses the software in the Singularity container. This pipeline runs all HybPiper steps with a single command. The pipeline script is called `hybpiper-rbgv-pipeline.nf`. It comes with an associated config file called `hybpiper-rbgv.config`. The only input required is a folder of sequencing reads for your samples, and a target file in `.fasta` format. The Nextflow pipeline will automatically generate the `namelist.txt` file required by some of the HybPiper scripts, and will run all HybPiper scripts on each sample in parallel. It also includes an optional read-trimmming step to QC your reads prior to running HybPiper, using the software [Trimmomatic][7]. The number of parallel processes running at any time, as well as computing resources given to each process (e.g. number of CPUs, amount of RAM etc) can be configured by the user by modifying the provided config file. The pipeline can be run directly on your local computer, and on an HPC system submitting jobs via a scheduler (e.g. [SLURM][21], PBS, etc). 

## Input data

### Target file

Your **`target file`**, which can contain either nucleotide OR protein sequences (see below for corresponding pipeline options), should follow the formatting described for HybPiper [here][19]. Briefly, your target genes should be grouped and differentiated by a suffix in the fasta header, consisting of a dash followed by an ID unique to each gene, e.g.:

    >AJFN-4471
    AATGTTATACAGGATGAAGAGAAACTGAATACTGCAAACTCCGATTGGATGCGGAAATACAAAGGCT...
    >Ambtr-4471
    AGTGTTATTCAAGATGAAGATGTATTGTCGACAGCCAATGTGGATTGGATGCGGAAATATAAGGGCA...
    >Ambtr-4527
    GAGGAGCGGGTGATTGCCTTGGTCGTTGGTGGTGGGGGTAGAGAACATGCTCTATGCTATGCTTTGC...
    >Arath-4691
    GAGCTTGGATCTATCGCTTGCGCAGCTCTCTGTGCTTGCACTCTTACAATAGCTTCTCCTGTTATTG...
    >BHYC-4691
    GAAGTGAACTGTGTTGCTTGTGGGTTTCTTGCTGCTCTTGCTGTCACTGCTTCTCCCGTAATCGCTG...
    etc...

### Read files

You will need to provide the `hybpiper-rbgv-pipeline.nf` pipeline with either:

a) A directory of paired-end forwards and reverse reads (and, optionally, a file of single-end reads) for each sample; or

b) A directory of single-end reads.

For the read files to be recognised by the pipeline, they should be named according to the default convention:

    *_R1.fastq 
    *_R2.fastq
    *_single.fastq (optional - will be used if running with the flag `--unpaired`)

OR

    *_R1.fq 
    *_R2.fq
    *_single.fq (optional - will be used if running with the flag `--unpaired`)

**NOTE:**
- It’s fine if there’s text after the `R1`/`R1` and before the `.fastq`/`.fq`, as long as it's the same for both read files.
- It’s fine if the input files are gzipped (i.e. suffix `.gz`). 
- You can specify a custom pattern used for read file matching via the parameters `--read_pairs_pattern <pattern>` or  `--single_pattern <pattern>`. 
- You can provide a folder of single-end reads only (use the flag `--single_only` if you do).


- The pipeline will concatenate samples that have been run on different lanes, e.g. read files:

      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L001_R1.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L001_R2.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L002_R1.fastq
      79678_LibID81729_HF7CKAFX2_TGAATGCC-TGTCTAGT_L002_R2.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L001_R1.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L001_R2.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L002_R1.fastq
      79679_LibID81730_HF7CKAFX2_GCAACTAT-TCGTTGAA_L002_R2.fastq

  It does this by grouping forwards and reverse reads (or single reads if you’re providing a folder of single reads and using the `--single_only` flag) via the common prefix preceding the first underscore (`_`). So, `79678` and `79679` in this case, resulting in the files:
  
      79678_combinedLanes_R1.fastq
      79678_combinedLanes_R2.fastq
      79679_combinedLanes_R1.fastq
      79679_combinedLanes_R2.fastq
      
   These combined read files will be used as input to Trimmomatic (optional) and HybPiper.


## Running on Linux

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on Linux][3].

## Running on a Mac (macOS)

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on a Mac][1].

## Running on a PC (Windows)

Please see the Wiki entry [Running on a PC][20].

## Nextflow pipeline options and parameters

Example run command:

    nextflow run hybpiper-rbgv-pipeline.nf -c hybpiper-rbgv.config --illumina_reads_directory reads_for_hybpiper --target_file Angiosperms353_targetSequences.fasta


Options:


    Mandatory arguments:

    #######################################################################################################################

    --illumina_reads_directory <directory>    Path to folder containing illumina read file(s)
  
    --target_file <file>                      File containing fasta sequences of target genes

    #######################################################################################################################

    Optional arguments:

     -profile <profile>                       Configuration profile to use. Can use multiple (comma separated)
                                              Available: standard (default), slurm
     
     -resume                                  If restarting the pipeline, use cached results from previously completed 
                                              processes

     --cleanup                                Run 'cleanup.py' for each gene directory after 'reads_first.py'

     --nosupercontigs                         Do not create supercontigs. Use longest Exonerate hit only. Default is off.

     --memory <int>                           Memory (RAM) amount in GB to use for bbmap.sh with exonerate_hits.py. 
                                              Default is 1 GB

     --discordant_reads_edit_distance <int>   Minimum number of base differences between one read of a read pair 
                                              vs the supercontig reference for a read pair to be flagged as discordant. 
                                              Default is 5

     --discordant_reads_cutoff <int>          Minimum number of discordant reads pairs required to flag a supercontigs 
                                              as a potential hybrid of contigs from multiple paralogs. Default is 5

     --merged                                 Merge forward and reverse reads, and run SPAdes assembly with merged and 
                                              unmerged (the latter in interleaved format) data. Default is off

     --paired_and_single                      Use when providing both paired R1 and R2 read files as well as a file of 
                                              single-end reads for each sample

     --single_only                            Use when providing providing only a folder of single-end reads

     --outdir <directory_name>                Specify the name of the pipeline results directory. Default is 'results'

     --read_pairs_pattern <pattern>           Provide a comma-separated read pair pattern for matching forwards and 
                                              reverse paired-end read-files. Default is 'R1,R2'

     --single_pattern <pattern>               Provide a pattern for matching single-end read files. Default is 'single'

     --use_blastx                             Use a protein target file and map reads to targets with BLASTx. Default 
                                              is a nucleotide target file and mapping of reads to targets using BWA

     --num_forks <int>                        Specify the number of parallel processes (e.g. concurrent runs of 
                                              reads.first.py) to run at any one time. Can be used to prevent Nextflow 
                                              from using all the threads/cpus on your machine. Default is to use the 
                                              maximum number possible

     --cov_cutoff <int>                       Coverage cutoff to pass to the SPAdes assembler. Default is 8

     --blastx_evalue <value>                  Evalue to pass to blastx when using blastx mapping (i.e. when the 
                                              --use_blastx flag is specified). Default is 1e-4

     --paralog_warning_min_len_percent <decimal>
                                              Minimum length percentage of a contig vs reference protein length for 
                                              a paralog warning to be generated and a putative paralog contig to be 
                                              recovered. Default is 0.75

     --translate_target_file_for_blastx       Translate a nucleotide target file. If set, the --use_blastx is set 
                                              by default. Default is off

     --use_trimmomatic                        Trim forwards and reverse reads using Trimmomatic. Default is off

     --trimmomatic_leading_quality <int>      Cut bases off the start of a read, if below this threshold quality. 
                                              Default is 3

     --trimmomatic_trailing_quality <int>     Cut bases off the end of a read, if below this threshold quality. 
                                              Default is 3

     --trimmomatic_min_length <int>           Drop a read if it is below this specified length. Default is 36

     --trimmomatic_sliding_window_size <int>  Size of the sliding window used by Trimmomatic; specifies the number of 
                                              bases to average across. Default is 4

     --trimmomatic_sliding_window_quality <int>
                                              Specifies the average quality required within the sliding window. 
                                              Default is 20

     --run_intronerate                        Run intronerate.py to recover (hopefully) intron and supercontig sequences.
                                              Default is off, and so results `subfolders 09_sequences_intron` and 
                                              `10_sequences_supercontig` will be empty
                                            
Please see the Wiki entry [Additional pipeline features and details][5] for further explanation of the parameters above, and general pipeline functionality.
             

## Output folders and files

If you're just after the unaligned `.fasta` files for each of your target genes, the two main output folders of interest are probably:

- `07_sequences_dna`
- `08_sequences_aa`

For a full explanation of output folders and files, please see the Wiki entry [Output folders and files][6].
             
## General notes

For details on adapting the pipeline to run on local and HPC computing resources, see [here][18].

## Bug fixes and changes (WIP)

Please see the Wiki entry [Bug fixes and changes][2].



## Issues still to deal with (WIP)

Please see the Wiki entry [Issues][4].




[1]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-a-Mac-(macOS)-with-Vagrant "Link to Running on a Mac Wiki"
[2]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Bug-fixes-and-changes-(WIP) "Link to bug fixes and changes Wiki"
[3]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-Linux "Link to Running on Linux Wiki"
[4]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Issues-(WIP) "Link to Issues Wiki"
[5]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Additional-pipeline-features-and-details "Link to Additional pipeline features and details Wiki"
[6]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Output-folders-and-files "Link to Output folders and files Wiki"
[7]:http://www.usadellab.org/cms/?page=trimmomatic "Link to Trimmomatic website"
[8]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK279690/ "Link to BLAST command line documentation"
[9]:https://biopython.org/ "Link to BioPython website"
[10]:https://github.com/ablab/spades "Link to SPAdes assembler website"
[11]:http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/ "Link to BWA mapper website"
[12]:https://jgi.doe.gov/data-and-tools/bbtools/bb-tools-user-guide/bbmap-guide/ "Link to bbmap documentation"
[13]:https://www.ebi.ac.uk/about/vertebrate-genomics/software/exonerate "Link to Exonerate website"
[14]:http://www.htslib.org/ "Link to htslib website for Samtools"
[15]:https://sylabs.io/docs/ "Link to Singularity website"
[16]:https://www.nextflow.io/ "Link to Nextflow website"
[17]:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4948903/ "Link to HybPiper manuscript"
[18]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Additional-pipeline-features-and-details#managing-computing-resources "Link to managing computing resources"
[19]:https://github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper/wiki#target-file "Link to HybPiper Wiki target file details"
[20]:https://github.com/chrisjackson-pellicle/HybPiper-RBGV/wiki/Running-on-a-PC-(Windows) "Link to Running on a PC Wiki"
[21]:https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html "Link to SLURM website"
